CONFORMANCE CLAIM

The inverval package version 2014-12-24 for GNU Octave is conforming to the
P1788 Standard for Interval Arithmetic, version D9.5 (October 2014).  It is
conforming to the set-based flavor with IEEE 754 conformance for the infsup
binary64 interval type and without compressed arithmetic.  Additionally it
provides no further flavors.


CONFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

a) Implementation-defined behavior
    1) What status flags or other means to signal the occurrence of certain
       decoration values in computations does the implementation provide if
       any?
       
       The implementation does not signal the occurrence of decoration values.

b) Documentation of behavior
    1) If the implementation supports implicit interval types, how is the
       interval hull operation realized?
       
       The implementation supports explicit interval types only.
       
    2) What accuracy is achieved (i.e., tightest, accurate, or valid) for each
       of the implementation’s interval operations?
       
       The accuracy requirements of IEEE 1788 are fulfilled.  Most operations
       achieve tightest accuracy, some reverse operations do not.  The
       tightness of each operation is documented in the function's
       documentation string and can be displayed with the help command.
       
    3) Under what conditions is a constructor unable to determine whether a
       level 1 value exists that corresponds to the supplied inputs?
       
       Exponents, if used, must be between -2^53 (exclusive) and +2^53
       (exclusive).  Non-zero decimal numbers must be between 10^(-2^62)
       (inclusive) and 10^(2^63 - 1) (exclusive).  Non-zero hexadecimal numbers
       must be between 2^(-2^62) (inclusive) and 2^(2^63 - 1) (exclusive).
       
    4) How are ties broken in rounding numbers if multiple numbers qualify as
       the rounded result?
       
       Tie-breaking uses the IEEE 754 default: round ties to even.
       
    5) How are interval datums converted to their exact text representations?
       
       The binary64 boundaries are converted into hexadecimal-significand form
       as required by the standard.  It is also possible to convert interval
       datums to exact interval literals in decimal form.
       
c) Implementation-defined behavior
    1) Does the implementation include the interval overlapping function?  If
       so, how is it made available to the user?
       
       Yes, the interval overlapping function is implemented under the name
       overlap.
       
    2) Does the implementation store additional information in a NaI? What
       functions are provided for the user to set and read this information?
       
       No additional information is stored in a NaI.
       
    3) What means if any does the implementation provide for an exception to be
       signaled when a NaI is produced?
       
       The creation of a NaI is signaled with GNU Octave's warning mechanism.
       
    4) What interval types are supported besides the required ones?
       
       None.
       
    5) What mechanisms of exception handling are used in exception handlers
       provided by the implementation?  What additional exception handling is
       provided by the implementation?
       
       The exceptions described by IEEE 1788 raise an error, which can be
       handled with GNU Octave's error mechanism.  The implementation provides
       no additional exception handling.
       
    6) [Question does not apply to IEEE 754 conforming types.]
       
    7) Does the implementation include different versions of the same operation
       for a given type and how are these provided to the user?
       
       The implementation does not include different versions of any operation.
       
    8) What combinations of formats are supported in interval constructors?
       
       Any reasonable combination of the formats described in the standard
       document is supported.
       
    9) [Question does not apply to IEEE 754 conforming types.]
       
   10) What methods are used to read or write strings from or to character
       streams?  Does the implementation employ variations in locales (such as
       specific character case matching)?  This includes the syntax used in the
       strings for reading and writing.
       
       Input and output is implemented with GNU Octave string variables in
       UTF-8 encoding.  There is no discrimination between different locales.
       Character case is ignored during input.  The syntax for interval
       literals is used as described by the standard document.
       
   11) What is the tightness for the interval to string conversion for all
       interval types?
       
       The general-purpose interval to string conversion produces the tightest
       decimal infsup form which has no more digits than are necessary to
       separate two binary64 numbers.
       
   12) What is the result of level 3 operations for invalid inputs?
       
       Interval constructors prevent the creation of invalid level 3 interval
       datums.
       
       Any non-interval input to level 3 operations is implicitly converted
       into an interval and the operation silently continues on interval
       inputs.  If at least one input is a decorated interval, bare interval
       inputs are implicitly decorated as described by newDec in the standard
       document.
       
       If implicit conversion fails, bare interval operations raise an error,
       whereas the decorated interval operations continue on NaI inputs.
       
       Some level 3 operations (especially interval comparison operations) are
       not allowed for NaI inputs and raise an error if evaluated for invalid
       inputs.
       
   13) [Question does not apply to IEEE 754 conforming types.]
       
   14) What decorations does the implementation provide and what is their
       mathematical definition?  How are these decorations mapped when
       converting an interval to the interchange format?
       
       The implementation provides the decorations com, dac, def, trv, and ill
       as described by the standard document.
       
   15) [Question does not apply to IEEE 754 conforming types.]

d) [Question applies to compressed arithmetic only, which is not supported.]

e) [Questions apply to non-standard flavors only, which are not supported.]
